Remote and Clinical Monitoring of Asthma
========================================

Project Description
-------------------

There are two apps that were generated as a result of this project. The
first is a patient-centered Shiny app that remotely tracks their asthma
symptoms, designed for patients to determine how well controlled their
asthma is (known as the remote monitoring app from here on). Patients
are asked a set of questions based on their symptoms during the day and
at night. Based on a previously established algorithm, the app will take
patient responses into account and classify each patient into one of 4
different asthma control levels. The app also provides further
instructions for monitoring these symptoms and additional steps to take.

The second app created is a clinical monitoring app. This app is
intended for physicians and other clinical providers to track the asthma
control level of patients over a given period of time. Users simply
enter a unique patient ID and date range over which they would like to
view control level information. The app produces a plot for providers to
view the control level at specific dates.

### Data

Data is generated by patients filling out the remote monitoring app.
Patients answer 4 questions about frequency of symptoms during the day
and at night, along with use of albuterol (either as an inhaler or a
nebulizer). This information, along with their resulting asthma control
level, gets stored in [Google Sheets](http://bit.ly/2i1EOHi).

Data entered in by patients is then read into the clinical monitoring
app for physicians to monitor patient control levels over time.

Code
----

The code can be found at this [GitHub
repository](https://github.com/d-narayanan/Remote-Asthma-Monitoring).
The ui.R and server.R files present in this folder are for the patient
monitoring app. Additionally, within this repository, there is a folder
called ClinicalAsthmaMonitoring. This folder contains ui.R and server.R
files for the clinical monitoring app for physicians to monitor trends
and history of their patients.

App Instructions
----------------

Visit the [remote monitoring
app](https://jhubiostatistics.shinyapps.io/remote_asthma_monitoring/).
Fill out each of the questions based on presence of asthma symptoms and
use of albuterol in the past two weeks.

To track an individual's trajectory over time, visit the [clinical
monitoring
app](https://jhubiostatistics.shinyapps.io/clinicalasthmamonitoring/).
Enter the unique patient ID and range of dates over which you want to
view a patient’s history. As a test case, use the patient ID
<test3@test.com>, and a date range of anywhere between June 1, 2016 and
December 31, 2016.

Development Notes
-----------------

### Storing Data to Google Sheets

One of the issues that we faced through generating the remote monitoring
app was storing the data in Google Sheets. We had initially expected to
collect data in a data frame, and store the data frame in an initialized
sheet. However, we found it much easier to store the information
collected through each iteration of filling out the app in a row of
data, and simply store each row to Google sheets.

Another design choice that we found challenging in the remote monitoring
app was hiding the patient report and plan until the submit button was
hit. As a workaround, we utilized the shinyjs package to hide and then
show these pieces of information based on observing the submission of
the questionnaire.
